# Motion_detector_using_PIR_sensor
The main ideology of this project is to provide security to the people who are living lonely and to provide automatic light system.


The objective of this project is to develop a motion sensor alarm based on a Passive Infra-Red (PIR). It is aim to build a sensor system which is transmit and receive the  signal. It is about the motion detection using Infra-Red sensor in wirelessly. Besides that, it also acted as an auto power switching system. When the sensor is triggered, the signal will transmit wirelessly to take further action. For this project, we relate this sensor system with an auto power light switching system. Which mean when the sensor is triggered, light in a room will automatically switch ON. In order to transmit signal wirelessly, It will used radio frequency module to transmit the signal. For the controller circuit part, it will use Programmable Interface Controller (PIC) to control the circuit, because it is cheaper and easier to program. The objective of this project is tending to switch ON the light automatically and fan based on the temperature. Besides that, signal transmit wirelessly can avoid the circuit malfunction because of wire broken.Instead of manual security if we use alarm based detection system for detecting human motions to provide security which reduces man power and is very cheap. As we know  human body radiates heat in the form of Infrared radiations. When a person moving around this circuit, PIR sensor2 detects the change in the IR levels of surroundings and sends a signal to the microcontroller.
